Connectorhub docs (#14)
connctd/docs: docs/content/connector/connector_protocol.md

The callbacks are called by the connctd platform whenever a connector is installed or instantiated or when an action is performed on a thing.
The endpoints can be called by the connector to manage installations, instances and things and to update properties of specific things.
This concept allows you to write your own connector and host it wherever you want as long as it is reachable via HTTPS.
And due to the concept of instance and installation tokens other apps can (if desired by you) make use of your written connector without exposing any end customer details.

## Callbacks

In the following, we give detailed descriptions of the callbacks used in the connector protocol.
Note that all callbacks are required.
However, if your connector does not need a callback you could implement a version that does nothing expect from returning the expected results.

### Installation callback

Whenever a connector is installed on the connctd platform a POST request is send against the *installationCallbackURL* specified in the connector publication.

> When an installation is removed a DELETE request is send against *installationCallbackURL/-installationId-*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

You can also consult our [reference implementation](https://github.com/connctd/api-go/blob/main/crypto/signing.go) and [SDK](https://github.com/connctd/connector-go/blob/40807b6937086d5b1755368f0141e8ce27a22754/handlers.go#L24) for more details on how to implement the signature verification.

<!-- TODO: The private key (and in case of ed25519 thereby the public key) is stored in vault. We could restore the pub key, in case a connector developer looses it -->

#### Payload

`id` is the ID of the new installation generated by the connctd platform.
It is used for further communication with the platform and should be stored by the connector.

`token` is the ***installation token***, that is generated by the connctd platform for this specific installation that must be used for all request regarding this installation.
The connector should store it to be able to communicate with the connctd platform about this installation.

`state` is the current state of the installation.
It is initially set to **1** (**INITIALIZED**) and can have one of the values described [below](#installation-states).

`configuration` will contain all configuration parameters provided by the installation.

> It will contain at least the required parameters and all parameters are type checked and validated according to the requirements specified in the connector publication before sending the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will contain at least the required parameters. Additionally all parameters are type checked and validated beforehand  according to the requirements specified in the connector publication.
```

If an installation does not require any parameters, the array will be empty.
Parameters can be specified during connector publication.

#### Response

The connector has to respond with one of the following status codes: **201**, **202**, **401** or **403**.
Optionally the response can contain a payload specifying further steps required for the installation.
The content of field **furtherStep** will be shown in the [Developer Center](https://devcenter.connctd.io/), formatted according to its type.
The field **details** can contain an arbitrary JSON object.
If the connector responds with status code **202** and further steps, the installation state will be set to **ONGOING**.

> In that case, it is the responsibility of the connector to update the installation state when the installation is finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, it is the responsibility of the connector to update the installation state as soon as the installation is finished.
```

To update the installation state the connector must send a request to the appropriate [API endpoint](#update-installation-state) described below.
<!-- TODO What is "details" used for? -->
<!-- TODO Add an example on how the payload / further step is used -->

```json
{
   "details": -arbitrary json object-,
   "furtherStep": {
      "type": -see installation step types-,
      "content": "Any content"
   }
}
```

The content type of **furtherStep** can have one of the values described [below](#installation-step-types).

If the connector responds with status code **201** the payload is ignored, because the status code indicates a successful installation.
If further steps are required, the connector should instead respond with status code **202**.

### Installation removal

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an installation is removed a DELETE request is send against *installationCallbackURL/-installationId-*.
```

* 4: FAILED

   Set by connctd as soon as the external connector service replied with 403 (Forbidden) or 401 (Unauthorized) to the installation request.
   This gives the external connector the possibility to signalize faulty configuration parameters (e.g. entered by developer).

* 5: ERROR

   Set by connctd as soon as the external connector service replied with an unexpected status code or when the response is malformed.
   In this case connctd responds with its own state details which should give external connector developers information on how to fix the problems.

* 6: INTERNAL_ERROR

   Set by connctd due to an internal issue.
   Leads to the cancellation of the installation.

* 7: REMOVAL_ONGOING

   Set by connctd as soon as an installation was marked for removal.

#### Installation step types

* 1: TEXT

   The corresponding value is interpreted as text.

* 2: MARKDOWN

   The corresponding value is interpreted as markdown.

* 3: REDIRECT

   The corresponding value is expected to be an URL.
   A link to the URL will be shown in the [Developer Center](https://devcenter.connctd.io/).

### Instance callback

> While an App can only install a connector once, it can create multiple instantiations of the installed connector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While a developer can install a connector only once per app, instantiations can be created multiple times for a specific installation.
```

Whenever a connector installation is instantiated on the connctd platform a POST request is send against the *instanceCallbackURL* specified in the connector publication.
When a instantiation is removed a DELETE request is send against *instanceCallbackURL/-installationId-*.

### New instantiation

```http
POST /-instanceCallbackUrl HTTP/1.1
Content-Type: application/json
Signature: -base64encodedSignature-

{
    "id": "-instanceId-",
    "installation_id": "-installationId",
    "token": "-instanceToken-",
    "state": 1,
    "configuration": [
        {
            "id": "-instantiationParameter-",
            "value": "-parameterValue-"
        }
    ]
}
```

See [installation documentation](#new-installation) for information on the signature.

#### Payload

`id` is the ID of the new instance generated by the conctd platform.
It is used for further communication with the platform and should be stored by the connector.

`token` is the ***instance token*** that is generated by the connctd platform for this specific instance.
It is used to authenticate requests towards the connctd platform and should be saved by the connector.

`state` is the current state of the instance.

> It is set to **1** (**INITIALIZED**) and can have one of the values described [below](#instance-states).

Reviewer: The link is not working for me. Not sure how the referencing works...via headlines? If yes I guess it should be: #instantiation-states

Author: Yes they work via headlines. I changed it to #instantiation-states

`configuration` will contain all configuration parameters provided by the instantiation.

> It will contain at least the required parameters and all parameters are type checked and validated according to the requirements specified in the connector publication before sending the request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It will contain at least the required parameters specified in the originating connector publication. Additionally all parameters are type checked and validated beforehand.
```

If an instantiation does not require any parameters, the array will be empty.
Parameters can be specified during connector publication.

#### Response

The connector has to respond with one of the following status codes: **201**, **202**, **401** or **403**.
Optionally the response can contain a payload specifying further steps required for the instantiation.
The field **details** can contain an arbitrary JSON object.
If the connector responds with status code **202** and further steps, the instantiation state will be set to **ONGOING**.

> In that case, it is the responsibility of the connector to update the instantiation state when the instantiation is finished.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that case, it is the responsibility of the connector to update the instantiation state as soon as the instantiation is finished.
```

<!-- TODO What is "details" used for? -->
<!-- TODO Add an example on how the payload / further step is used -->

```json
{
   "details": -arbitrary JSON object-,
   "furtherStep": {
      "type": -see instantiation step types-,
      "content": "Any content"
   }
}
```

The content type of **furtherStep** can have one of the values described [below](#instantiation-step-types).

If the connector responds with status code **201** the payload is ignored, because the status code indicates a successful instantiation.
If further steps are required, the connector should instead respond with status code **202**.

### Instance removal

```http
DELTETE /-instanceCallbackURL-/-instanceID- HTTP/1.1
Signature: -base64encodedSignature-
```

Whenever an instance is removed on the connctd platform, a DELETE request is send to the connector.
For more information on the signature read the documentation for [new installations](#new-installation).

#### Response

The connector should take appropriate actions on his side, e.g. remove the instance, and respond with status code **204** (**NO_CONTENT**).

> If another status code is returned, an error message is returned to the app that is removing the instance, but the removal will still succeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If another status code is returned, an error message is returned to the app that is removing the instance, but the removal will still succeed. **Please note**: connctd already takes care of removing the things that are related to the removed instance.
```

* 4: FAILED

   Set by connctd as soon as the external connector service replied with 403 (Forbidden) or 401 (Unauthorized) to the instantiation request.
   This gives the external connector the possibility to signalize faulty configuration parameters (e.g. entered by developer).

* 5: ERROR

   Set by connctd as soon as the external connector service replied with an unexpected status code or when the response is malformed.
   In this case connctd responds with its own state details which should give external connector developers information on how to fix the problems.

* 6: INTERNAL_ERROR

   Set by connctd due to an internal issue.
   Leads to the cancellation of the instantiation.

* 7: REMOVAL_ONGOING

   Set by connctd as soon as an instantiation was marked for removal.

#### Instantiation step types

* 1: TEXT

   The corresponding value is interpreted as text.

* 2: MARKDOWN

   The corresponding value is interpreted as markdown.

* 3: REDIRECT

   The corresponding value is expected to be an URL.

### Action callback

Whenever an action is triggered on a thing, the connector is informed in order to implement the action.

> The following request is sent against the ***actionCallbackUrl*** if an action is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following request is sent against the ***actionCallbackUrl*** if an action is triggered. Every action request has a unique action id. This allows a connector to implement even long-taking actions since the connector can always reference a specific action request and finalize it whenever the actual action was executed.
```

For more information on how an action is triggered, see the [GraphQL API documentation](/graphql/things/#trigger-actions).

```http
POST -actionCallbackURL- HTTP/1.0
Content-Type: application/json
Signature: -base64encodedSignature- 

{
    "id": "-actionRequestId-",
    "thingId": "-thingId",
    "componentId": "-componentId-",
    "actionId": "-actionId-",
    "status": "-status-",
    "parameters": {
        "-key-": "-value-"
    }
}
```

#### Payload

> `id` is the ID of the action request. It identifies this specific request, not the triggered action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`id` is the ID of the action request. It identifies this specific request, not the triggered action. It can be for example used to update the state of an action later on. This is useful when interacting with devices that might be in a sleeping mode.
```

}
```

### Update Instantiation State

Connectors can update the state of installations using the installation token.
Installation state can only be updated to **COMPLETE**, **ONGOING** or **FAILED**.

```http
POST https://connectors.connctd.io/api/v1/connectorhub/callback/instances/things
Authorization: Bearer -instance token-
Content-Type: application/json

{
	"state": -instance state: COMPLETE or ONGOING or FAILED-,
	"details": -arbitrary json object-
}
```

Connectors can attach an arbitrary JSON object to communicate details about the instance state.
<!-- TODO: How exactly is state details uses in the connectorhub? -->

#### Response

If no error occurs, the connctd platform will respond with status code **204** (**NO_CONTENT**).

In case of an error the connctd platform will respond with status code **40x** or **50x** and a JSON object with details on the error is returned.

<!-- TODO: explain requestId -->
```JSON
StatusCode: -depends on status in error-
{
    "error": "BAD_REQUEST",
    "status": 400,
    "description": "Given installation state details are not valid",
}
```

### Create Thing

Connectors can register new things on the connctd platform.

> Things are always bound to a connector instance and registration needs the **instance token** retrieved during creation of the instance (see [instance creation](#new-instantiation)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things are always bound to a connector instance and registration needs the **instance token** received during creation of the instance (see [instance creation](#new-instantiation)).
```
